During the latter portion of primary Education, which is devoted
to the culture of the imaginative powers, the philosophic development of
the individual, corresponding to that of the race, will carry him from the
simple Fetichism with which he began to the state of Polytheism. This
resemblance between the growth of the individual and that of society has
always shown itself more or less, in spite of the irrational precautions of
Christian teachers. They have never been able to give children a distaste
for those simple tales of fairies and genii, which are natural to this phase.
The Positivist teacher will let this tendency take its own course. It should
not, however, involve any hypocrisy on the part of the parents, nor need
it lead to any subsequent contradiction. The simple195 truth is enough.
The child may be told that these spontaneous beliefs are but natural to
his age, but that they will gradually lead him on to others, by the
fundamental law of all human development. Language of this kind will
not only have the advantage of familiarizing him with a great principle
of Positivism, but will stimulate the nascent sense of sociability, by
leading him to sympathize with the various nations who still remain at
his own primitive stage of intellectual development.
The second part consists of public lectures on the Sciences, from
Mathematics to Sociology
The second part of Positivist Education cannot be conducted
altogether at home, since it involves public lectures, in which of course
the part taken by the parent can only be accessory. But this is no reason
for depriving the pupil of the advantages of family life; it remains as
indispensable as ever to his moral development, which is always to be
the first consideration. It will be easy for him to follow the best masters
without weakening his sense of personal and domestic morality, which is
the almost inevitable result of the monastic seclusion of modern schools.
The public-school system is commonly thought to compensate for these
disadvantages, by the knowledge of the world which it gives; but this is
better obtained by free intercourse with society, where sympathies are
far more likely to be satisfied. Recognition of this truth would do much
to facilitate and improve popular education; and it applies to all cases,
except perhaps to some special professions, where seclusion of the