pupils may still be necessary, though even in these cases probably it may
be ultimately dispensed with.
The plan to be followed in this period of education, will obviously
be that indicated by the encyclopedic law of Classification, which forms
part196 of my Theory of Development. Scientific study, whether for the
working man or the philosopher, should begin with the inorganic world
around us, and then pass to the subject of Man and Society; since our
ideas on these two subjects form the basis of our practical action. The
first class of studies, as I have stated before, includes four sciences
which we may arrange in pairs: Mathematics and Astronomy forming
the first pair; Physics and Chemistry the second. To each of these pairs,
two years may be given. But as the first ranges over a wide field, and is
of greater logical importance, it will require two lectures weekly;
whereas, for all the subsequent studies one lecture will be sufficient.
Besides, during these two years, the necessities of practical life will not
press heavily, and more time may fairly be spent in mental occupation.
From the study of inorganic science, the pupil will proceed to Biology:
this subject may easily be condensed in the fifth year into a series of
forty lectures, without really losing either its philosophic or its popular
character. This concludes the introductory part of Education. The student
will now co-ordinate all his previous knowledge by the direct study of
Sociology, statically and dynamically viewed. On this subject also forty
lectures will be given, in which the structure and growth of human
societies, especially those of modern times, will be clearly explained.
With this foundation we come to the last of the seven years of pupillage,
in which the great social purpose of the scheme is at last reached. It will
be devoted to a systematic exposition of Moral Science, the principles of
which may be now fully understood by the light of the knowledge
previously obtained of the World, of Life, and of Humanity.
During this course of study, part of the three197 unoccupied
months of each year will be spent in public examinations, to test the
degree to which the instruction has been assimilated. The pupils will of
their own accord continue their esthetic pursuits, even supposing their
natural tastes in this direction not to be encouraged as they ought to be.
During the last two years the Latin and Greek languages might be