as human development evokes a stronger sense of the ties which unite
each with all, by the threefold bond of Feeling, Thought, and Action.
Inheritance favourable to its right employment
Positivism, being more pacific and more efficacious than
Communism, because more true, is also broader and more complete in
its solution of great183 social problems. The superficial view of
property, springing too often from envious motives, which condemns
Inheritance because it admits of possession without labour, is not
subversive merely, but narrow. From the moral point of view we see at
once the radical weakness of these empirical reproaches. They show
blindness to the fact that this mode of transmitting wealth is really that
which is most likely to call out the temper requisite for its right
employment. It saves the mind and the heart from the mean and sordid
habits which are so often engendered by slow accumulation of capital.
The man who is born to wealth is more likely to feel the wish to be
respected. And thus those whom we are inclined to condemn as idlers
may very easily become the most useful of the rich classes, under a wise
reorganization of opinions and habits. Of course too, since with the
advance of Civilization the difficulty of living without industry
increases, the class that we are speaking of becomes more and more
exceptional. In every way, then, it is a most serious mistake to wish to
upset society on account of abuses which are already in course of
removal, and which admit of conversion to a most beneficial purpose.
Intellect needs moral control as much as wealth
Again, another feature in which the Positivist solution surpasses
the Communist, is the remarkable completeness of its application.
Communism takes no account of anything but wealth; as if wealth were
the only power in modern society badly distributed and administered. In
reality there are greater abuses connected with almost every other power
that man possesses; and especially with the powers of intellect; yet these
our visionaries make not the smallest attempt to rectify. Positivism being
the only doctrine that embraces the whole sphere of human existence, is
therefore184 the only doctrine that can elevate Social Feeling to its
proper place, by extending it to all departments of human activity
without exception. Identification, in a moral sense, of private functions