But there is no necessity for its interfering with study, since it always
involves long residence in the chief centres of production, where the
workman is sure to find annual courses of lectures similar to those which
he would otherwise have been attending at home. As the structure and
distribution of the philosophic body will be everywhere the same, there
need be no great inconvenience in these changes. For every centre not
more than seven teachers will be required; each of whom will take the
whole Encyclopedic scale successively. Thus the total number of
lectures will be so small as to admit of a high standard of merit being
everywhere attained, and of finding everywhere a fair measure of
material support. So far from discouraging the travelling system,
Positivism will give it a new character, intellectually and socially, by
extending the range of travel to the whole of Western Europe, since
there is no part of it in which the workman199 will not be able to
prosecute his education. The difference of language will then be no
obstacle. Not only would the sense of fraternity among Western nations
be strengthened by such a plan, but great improvement would result
esthetically. The languages of Europe would be learnt more thoroughly,
and there would be a keener appreciation of works of art, whether
musical, pictorial, or architectural; for these can never be properly
appreciated but in the country which gave them birth.
Concentration of study
Judging by our present practice, it would seem impossible to
include such a mass of important scientific studies, as are here proposed,
in three hundred and sixty lectures. But the length to which courses of
lectures on any subject extend at present, is owing partly to the special
or professional object with which the course is given, and still more to
the discursive and unphilosophical spirit of most of the teachers,
consequent on the miserable manner in which our scientific system is
organized. Such a regeneration of scientific studies as Positivism
proposes, will animate them with a social spirit, and thus give them a
larger and more comprehensive tendency. Teachers will become more
practised in the art of condensing, and their lectures will be far more
substantial. They will not indeed be a substitute for voluntary effort, on
which all the real value of teaching depends. Their aim will be rather to