And yet this is the only real system of universal education which
the world has hitherto seen. For we cannot give that name to the so-
called University system which metaphysicians began to introduce into
Europe at the close of the Middle Ages; and which offered little more
than the special instruction previously given to the priesthood; that is,
the study of the Latin language, with the dialectical training required for
the defence of their doctrines. Morals were untaught except as a part of
the training of the191 professed theologian. All this metaphysical and
literary instruction was of no great service to social evolution, except so
far as it developed the critical power; it had, however, a certain indirect
influence on the constructive movement, especially on the development
of Art. But its defects, both practical and theoretical, have been made
more evident by its application to new classes of society, whose
occupations, whether practical or speculative, required a very different
kind of training. And thus, while claiming the title of Universal, it never
reached the working classes, even in Protestant countries, where each
believer became to a certain extent his own priest.
The theological method being obsolete, and the metaphysical
method inadequate, the task of founding an efficient system of popular
education belongs to Positivism; the only doctrine capable of reconciling
these two orders of conditions, the intellectual and the moral, which are
equally necessary, but which since the Middle Ages have always proved
incompatible. Positivist education, while securing the supremacy of the
heart over the understanding more efficiently than Catholicism, will yet
put no obstacle in the way of intellectual growth. The function of
Intellect, in education as in practical life, will be to regulate Feeling; the
culture of which, beginning at birth, will be maintained by constant
exercise of the three classes of duties relative to Self, to the Family, and
to Society.
I have already explained the mode in which the principles of
universal morality will be finally co-ordinated; a task which, as I have
shown, is connected with the principal function of the new spiritual
power. I have now only to point out the paramount influence of morality
on every part of Positive Education. It will be seen to be connected192