acquired, as an accessory study, which would improve the poetic culture
of the student, and be useful to him in the historical and moral questions
with which he will then be occupied. For the purposes of Art, Greek is
the more useful of the two; but in the second object, that of enabling us
to realize our social Filiation, Latin is of even greater importance.
In the course of these seven years the philosophic development of
the individual, preserving its correspondence with that of the race, will
pass through its last phase. As the pupil passed before from Fetichism to
Polytheism, so he will now pass, as spontaneously, into Monotheism,
induced by the influence on his imaginative powers which hitherto have
been supreme, of the spirit of discussion. No interference should be
offered to this metaphysical transition, which is the homage that he pays
to the necessary conditions under which mankind arrives at truth. There
is something in this provisional phase which evidently harmonizes well
with the abstract and independent character of Mathematics, with which
the two first years of the seven are occupied. As long as more attention
is given to deduction than to induction, the mind cannot but retain a
leaning to metaphysical theories. Under their influence the student will
soon reduce his primitive theology to Deism of a more or less distinct
kind; and this during his physico-chemical studies will most likely
degenerate into a species of Atheism; which last phase,198 under the
enlightening influence of biological and still more of sociological
knowledge, will be finally replaced by Positivism. Thus at the time fixed
for the ultimate study of moral science, each new member of Humanity
will have been strongly impressed by personal experience, with a sense
of historical Filiation, and will be enabled to sympathize with his
ancestors and contemporaries, while devoting his practical energies to
the good of his successors.
Travels of Apprentices
There is an excellent custom prevalent among the working men of
France and creditable to their good sense, with which our educational
scheme seems at first sight incompatible. I refer to the custom of
travelling from place to place during the last years of apprenticeship;
which is as beneficial to their mind and character, as the purposeless
excursions of our wealthy and idle classes are in most cases injurious.