work in the same direction by judging the Past, and advising for the
Present;205 so that we have at once a beginning of the three essential
functions of the new spiritual power.
We have now a clear conception of popular education in its
provisional, and in its normal state. Long before the normal state can be
realized, the mutual action of philosophers and workmen will have done
great service to both. Meeting with such powerful support from the
people, the rising spiritual power will win the respect if not the affection
of their rulers, even of those among them who are now the most
contemptuous of every influence but that of material power. Their
excess of pride will often be so far humbled that they will invite its
mediation in cases where the people have been roused to just
indignation. The force of numbers seems at first so violent as to carry all
before it; but in the end it usually proves far inferior to that of wealth. It
cannot exist for any length of time without complete convergence of
opinion and feeling. Hence, a spiritual power has very great weight in
controlling or directing its action. Philosophers will never, indeed, be
able to manage the working classes as they please, as some unprincipled
agitators have imagined; but when they exercise their authority rightly,
whether it be in the cause of Order or that of Progress, they will have
great power over their passions and conduct. Such influence can only
spring from long cherished feelings of gratitude and trust, due not
merely to presumed capacity but to services actually rendered. No one is
a fit representative of his own claims; but the philosopher may
honourably represent the cause of working men before the governing
classes; and the people will in their turn compel their rulers to respect
the new spiritual power. By this habitual exchange of services the
aspirations of the people will be kept clear of all subversive tendencies,
and206 philosophers will be led to abandon the folly of seeking political
power. Neither class will degrade itself by making its own interest the
chief consideration: each will find its own reward in keeping to the
nobler course of its own social duty.
Intellectual attitude of the people. Emancipation from theological
belief