generally understood that the popular character of his lectures implies
that they shall be at the same time systematic. Members of the new
spiritual power will in most cases regard teaching as their principal
occupation, for at least a considerable portion of their public life.
We are not ripe for this system at present; and Government must
not attempt to hasten its introduction
What has been said makes it clear that any organization of such
education as this at the present time would be impossible. However
sincere the intentions of governments to effect this great result might be,
any premature attempt to do it would but injure the work, especially if
they put in a claim to superintend it. The truth is that a system of
education, if it deserve the name, presupposes the acceptance of a
definite philosophical and social creed to determine its character and
purpose. Children cannot be brought up in convictions contrary to those
of their parents; indeed, the influence of the parent is essential to the
instructor. Opinions and habits that have been already formed may
subsequently be strengthened by an educational system; but the carrying
out203 of any such system is impossible, until the principles of
combined action and belief have been well established. Till then the
organization that we propose can only be effected in the case of
individuals who are ripe for it. Each of these will endeavour to repair the
faults and deficiencies of his own education in the best way he can, by
the aid of the general doctrine which he accepts. Assuming that the
doctrine is destined to triumph, the number of such minds gradually
increases, and they superintend the social progress of the next
generation. This is the natural process, and no artificial interference can
dispense with it. So far, then, from inviting government to organize
education, we ought rather to exhort it to abdicate the educational
powers which it already holds, and which, I refer more especially to
France, are either useless or a source of discord. There are only two
exceptions to this remark, namely, primary education, and special
instruction in certain higher branches. Of these I have already spoken.
But with these exceptions, it is most desirable that government, whether
municipal or central, should surrender its unreasonable monopoly, and
establish real liberty of teaching; the condition of such liberty being, as I