attract the growing powers of attention, will be the only instruction
received. The philosophic system of the infant individual, like that of the
infant species, consists in pure Fetichism, and its natural development
should not be disturbed by unwise interference. The only care of the
parents will be to impress those feelings and habits for which a rational
basis will be given at a later period. By taking every opportunity of
calling the higher instincts into play, they will be laying down the best
foundation for true morality.
During the period of about seven years comprised between the
second dentition and puberty, Education will become somewhat more
systematic; but it will be limited to the culture of the fine arts; and it will
be still most important, especially on moral grounds, to avoid separation
from the family. The study of Art should simply consist in practising it
more or less systematically. No formal lectures are necessary, at least for
the purposes of general education, though of course for professional
purposes they may still be required. There is no reason why these studies
should not be carried on at home by the second generation of Positivists,
when the culture of the parents will be sufficiently advanced to allow
them to superintend it. They will include Poetry, the art on which all the
rest are based; and the two most194 important of the special arts, music
and drawing. Meantime the pupil will become familiar with the principal
Western languages, which are included in the study of Poetry, since
modern poetry cannot be properly appreciated without them. Moreover,
independently of esthetic considerations, a knowledge of them is most
important morally, as a means of destroying national prejudices, and of
forming the true Positivist standard of Occidental feeling. Each nation
will be taught to consider it a duty to learn the language of contiguous
countries; an obvious principle, which, in the case of Frenchmen, will
involve their learning all the other four languages, as a consequence of
that central position which gives them so many advantages. When this
rule becomes general, and the natural affinities of the five advanced
nations are brought fully into play, a common Occidental language will
not be long in forming itself spontaneously, without the aid of any
metaphysical scheme for producing a language that shall be absolutely
universal.