with public duties is even more necessary in the case of the scientific
man or the artist, than in that of the proprietor; whether we look at the
source from which his powers proceed, or at the object to which they
should be directed. Yet the men who wish to make material wealth
common, the only kind of wealth that can be held exclusively by an
individual, never extend their utopian scheme to intellectual wealth, in
which it would be far more admissible. In fact the apostles of
Communism often come forward as zealous supporters of what they call
literary property. Such inconsistencies show the shallowness of the
system; it proclaims its own failure in the very cases that are most
favourable for the application. The extension of the principle here
suggested would expose at once the inexpediency of political regulations
on the subject, and the necessity of moral rules; for these and these only
can ensure the right use of all our faculties without distinction.
Intellectual effort, to be of any value, must be spontaneous; and it is
doubtless an instinctive sense of this truth which prevents Communists
from subjecting intellectual faculties to their utopian regulations. But
Positivism can deal with these faculties which stand in the most urgent
need of wise direction, without inconsistency and without disturbance. It
leaves to them their fair measure of free action; and in the case of other
faculties which, though less eminent, are hardly less dangerous to
repress, it strengthens their freedom. When a pure morality arises
capable of impressing a social tendency upon every phase of human
activity, the freer our185 action becomes the more useful will it be to the
public. The tendency of modern civilization, far from impeding private
industry, is to entrust it more and more with functions, especially with
those of a material kind, which were originally left to government.
Unfortunately this tendency, which is very evident, leads economists
into the mistake of supposing that industry may be left altogether
without organization. All that it really proves is that the influence of
moral principles is gradually preponderating over that of governmental
regulations.
Action of organized public opinion upon Capitalists. Strikes
The method which is peculiar to Positivism of solving our great
social problems by moral agencies, will be found applicable also to the