purpose. Therefore if the general training be sound, most people will be
able to prosecute accessory studies by themselves. Apprenticeship to any
business involves very little, except the practice of it. Even in the highest
arts, no course of systematic instruction is necessary. The false views
now prevalent on the subject are due to the unfortunate absence of all
general education, since the decay of Catholicism. The special
institutions founded in Europe during the last three centuries, and
carefully remodelled in France by the Convention, are only valuable as
containing certain germs of truth, which will be found indispensable
when general education is finally reorganized. But important as they
may be from a scientific aspect, their practical utility, which seems to
have been the motive for establishing them, is exceedingly doubtful. The
arts which they were intended to promote could have done perfectly well
without them. I include in these remarks such institutions as the
Polytechnic School, the Museum of Natural History, etc. Their value,
like that of all good institutions of modern times, is purely provisional.
Viewed in this light, it may be worth our while to reorganize them.
Positivist principles, discarding all attempts to make them permanent,
will be all the better able to adapt them to their important temporary
purpose. Indeed there are some new institutions which it might be
advisable to form; such, for instance, as a School of Comparative
Philology, the object of which would be to range all human languages
according to their true affinities. This would compensate the suppression
of Greek and Latin professorships, which is certainly an indispensable
measure. But the whole of this202 provisional framework would no
doubt disappear before the end of the nineteenth century, when a system
of general education will have been thoroughly organized. The present
necessity for a provisional system should lead to no misconception of its
character and purpose. Working men are the only class who have a real
claim upon the State for instruction; and this, if wisely organized,
dispenses with the necessity of special institutions. The adoption of these
views would at once facilitate and ennoble popular education. Nations,
provinces, and towns will vie with one another in inviting the best
teachers that the spiritual authorities of Western Europe can supply. And
every true philosopher will take pride in such teaching, when it becomes