philosophic body, whether solicited or not, whether its purpose be to
organize popular effort or to repress it, will largely influence the result.
We are now in a position to state with more precision the main
practical difference between the policy of Positivism, and that of
Communism or of Socialism. All progressive political schools agree in
concentrating their attention upon the problem, How to give the people
their proper place as a component element of modern Society, which
ever since the Middle Ages has been tending more and more distinctly to
its normal mode of existence. They also agree that the two great
requirements of the working classes are, the organization of Education,
and the organization of Labour. But here their agreement ends. When the
means of effecting these two objects have to be considered, Positivists
find themselves at issue with all other Progressive schools. They
maintain that the organization of Industry must be based upon the
organization of Education. It is commonly supposed that both may be
begun simultaneously: or indeed that Labour may be organized
irrespectively of Education. It may seem as if we are making too much
of a mere question of arrangement; yet the difference is one which
affects the whole character and method of social reconstruction. The
plan usually followed is simply a repetition of the old attempt to
reconstruct politically without waiting for spiritual reconstruction; in
other words, to raise the social edifice before its intellectual and moral
foundations have been laid. Hence the attempts made to satisfy popular
requirements by measures of a purely political189 kind, because they
appear to meet the evil directly; a course which is as useless as it is
destructive. Positivism, on the contrary, substitutes for such agencies, an
influence which is sure and peaceful, although it be gradual and indirect;
the influence of a more enlightened morality, supported by a purer state
of Public Opinion; such opinion being organized by competent minds,
and diffused freely amongst the people. In fact, the whole question,
whether the solution of the twofold problem before us is to be empirical,
revolutionary, and therefore confined simply to France; or whether it is
to be consistent, pacific, and applicable to the whole of Western Europe,
depends upon the preference or the postponement of the organization of
Labour to the organization of Education.