at first spontaneously, and afterwards in a more systematic form, with
the entire system of human knowledge.
Positive Education, adapting itself to the requirements of the
Organism with which it has to deal, subordinates intellectual conditions
to social. Social conditions are considered as the main object,
intellectual as but the means of attaining it. Its principal aim is to induce
the working classes to accept their high social function of supporting the
spiritual power, while at the same time it will render them more efficient
in their own special duties.
Education has two stages: from birth to puberty, from puberty to
adolescence. The first, consisting of physical and esthetic training to be
given at home
Presuming that Education extends from birth to manhood, we may
divide it into two periods, the first ending with puberty, that is, at the
beginning of industrial apprenticeship. Education here should be
essentially spontaneous, and should be carried on as far as possible in
the bosom of the family. The only studies required should be of an
esthetic kind. In the second period, Education takes a systematic form,
consisting chiefly of a public course of scientific lectures, explaining the
essential laws of the various orders of phenomena. These lectures will be
the groundwork of Moral Science, which will co-ordinate the whole, and
point out the relation of each part to the social purpose common to all.
Thus, at about the time which long experience has fixed as that of legal
majority, and when in most cases the term of apprenticeship closes, the
workman will be prepared intellectually and morally for his public and
private service.
The first years of life, from infancy to the end of the period of
second dentition, should be devoted to education of the physical powers,
carried on193 under the superintendence of the parents, especially of the
mother. Physical education, as usually practised, is nothing but mere
muscular exercise; but a more important object is that of training the
senses, and giving manual skill, so as to develop from the very first our
powers of observation and action. Study, in the ordinary acceptation,
there should be none during this period, not even reading or writing. An
acquaintance with facts of various kinds, such as may spontaneously