Public Opinion must be based upon a sound system of Education
This conclusion involves a brief explanation of the general system
of education which Positivism will introduce. This the new spiritual
power regards as its principal function, and as its most efficient means of
satisfying the working classes in all reasonable demands.
It was the great social virtue of Catholicism, that it introduced for
the first time, as far as circumstances permitted, a system of education
common to all classes without distinction, not excepting even those who
were still slaves. It was a vast undertaking, yet essential to its purpose of
founding a spiritual power which was to be independent of the temporal
power. Apart from its temporary value, it has left us one imperishable
principle, namely that in all education worthy of the name, moral
training should be regarded as of greater importance than scientific
teaching. Catholic education, however, was of course, extremely
defective; owing partly to the circumstances of the time, and partly to
the weakness of190 the doctrine on which it rested. Having reference
almost exclusively to the oppressed masses, the principal lesson which it
taught was the duty of almost passive resignation, with the exception of
certain obligations imposed upon rulers. Intellectual culture in any true
sense there was none. All this was natural in a faith which directed
men's highest efforts to an object unconnected with social life, and
which taught that all the phenomena of nature were regulated by an
impenetrable Will. Catholic Education was consequently quite unsuited
to any period but the Middle Ages; a period during which the advanced
portion of Humanity was gradually ridding itself of the ancient
institution of slavery, by commuting it first into serfdom, as a
preliminary step to entire personal freedom. In the ancient world
Catholic education would have been too revolutionary; at the present
time it would be servile and inadequate. Its function was that of directing
the long and difficult transition from the social life of Antiquity to that
of Modern times. Personal emancipation once obtained, the working
classes began to develop their powers and rise to their true position as a
class; and they soon became conscious of intellectual and social wants
which Catholicism was wholly incapable of satisfying.