settlement of industrial disputes, so far as the popular claims involved
are well founded. These claims will thus become clear from all tendency
to disorder, and will consequently gain immensely in force; especially
when they are seen to be consistent with principles which are freely
accepted by all, and when they are supported by a philosophic body of
known impartiality and enlightenment. This spiritual power, while
impressing on the people the duty of respecting their temporal leaders,
will impose duties upon these latter, which they will find impossible to
evade. As all classes will have received a common education, they will
all alike be penetrated with the general principles on which these special
obligations will rest. And these weapons, derived from no source but
that of Feeling and Reason, and aided solely by Public Opinion, will
wield an influence over practical life, of which nothing in the present
day can give any conception. We might compare it with the influence of
Catholicism in the Middle Ages, only that men are too apt to attribute
the results of186 Catholicism to the chimerical hopes and fears which it
inspired, rather than to the energy with which praise and blame were
distributed. With the new spiritual power praise and blame will form the
only resource; but it will be developed and consolidated to a degree
which, as I have before shown, was impossible for Catholicism.
This is the only real solution of the disputes that are so constantly
arising between workmen and their employers. Both parties will look to
this philosophic authority as a supreme court of arbitration. In estimating
its importance, we must not forget that the antagonism of employer and
employed has not yet been pushed to its full consequences. The struggle
between wealth and numbers would have been far more serious, but for
the fact that combination, without which there can be no struggle worth
speaking of, has hitherto only been permitted to the capitalist. It is true
that in England combinations of workmen are not legally prohibited. But
in that country they are not yet sufficiently emancipated either
intellectually or morally, to make such use of the power as would be the
case in France. When French workmen are allowed to concert their plans
as freely as their employers, the antagonism of interests that will then
arise will make both sides feel the need of a moral power to arbitrate
between them. Not that the conciliating influence of such a power will