far beyond our means of intervention, that to set it before us as our main
object to rectify the defects of the natural order in this respect, would be
to waste our short life in barren and interminable disputes. The chief
concern of the public is that power, in whosever hands it may be placed,
should be exercised for their benefit; and this is a point to which we may
direct our efforts with far greater effect. Besides, by regulating the
employment of wealth, we do, indirectly, modify its tenure; for the mode
in which wealth is held has some secondary influence over the right use
of it.
The regulations required should be moral, not political in their
source; general, not special, in their application. Those who accept them
will do so of their own free will, under the influence of their education.
Thus their obedience, while steadily maintained, will have, as Aristotle
long ago observed, the merit of voluntary action. By182 converting
private property into a public function, we would subject it to no
tyrannical interference; for this, by the destruction of free impulse and
responsibility, would prove most deeply degrading to man's character.
Indeed, the comparison of proprietors with public functionaries will
frequently be applied in the inverse sense; with the view, that is, of
strengthening the latter rather than of weakening the former. The true
principle of republicanism is, that all forces shall work together for the
common good. With this view we have on the one hand, to determine
precisely what it is that the common good requires; and on the other, to
develop the temper of mind most likely to satisfy the requirement. The
conditions requisite for these two objects are, a recognized Code of
principles, an adequate Education, and a healthy direction of Public
Opinion. For such conditions we must look principally to the
philosophic body which Positivism proposes to establish at the apex of
modern society. Doubtless this purely moral influence would not be
sufficient of itself. Human frailty is such that Government, in the
ordinary sense of the word, will have as before to repress by force the
more palpable and more dangerous class of delinquencies. But this
additional control, though necessary, will not fill so important a place as
it did in the Middle Ages under the sway of Catholicism. Spiritual
rewards and punishments will preponderate over temporal, in proportion