said before, the suppression of all annual grants whatsoever for
theological or metaphysical purposes. Until some universal faith has
been accepted on its own merits, all attempts made by Government to
reform education must necessarily be reactionary; since they will always
be based on some one of the retrogressive creeds which it is our object
to supersede altogether.
It is with adults, then, that we must deal. We must endeavour to
disseminate systematic convictions among them, and thus open the door
to a real reform of education for the next generation. The press and the
power of free speech offer many204 ways of bringing about this result.
The most important of these would be a more or less connected series of
popular lectures on the various positive sciences, including history,
which may now be ranked among them. Now for these lectures to
produce their full effect, they must even when treating of the most
elementary point in mathematics, be thoroughly philosophic and
consequently animated by a social spirit. They must be entirely
independent of government, so as not to be hampered by any of the
authorized views. Lastly, there is a condition in which all the rest are
summed up. These lectures should be Occidental, not simply National.
What we require is a free association of philosophers throughout
Western Europe, formed by the voluntary co-operation of all who can
contribute efficiently to this great preliminary work; their services being
essentially gratuitous. It is a result which no system but Positivism is
capable of effecting. By its agency that coalition between philosophers
and the working classes, on which so much depends, will speedily be
established.
While the work of propagating Positivist convictions is going on
in the free and unrestricted manner here described, the spiritual authority
will at the same time be forming itself, and will be prepared to make use
of these convictions as the basis for social regeneration. Thus the
transitional state will be brought as nearly as possible into harmony with
the normal state; and this the more in proportion as the natural affinity
between philosophers and workmen is brought out more distinctly. The
connexion between Positivist lectures and Positivist clubs will illustrate
my meaning. While the lectures prepare the way for the Future, the clubs