ever be such as to do away entirely with extreme measures; but it will
greatly restrict their application, and in cases where they are
unavoidable, will mitigate their excesses. Such measures should be
limited on both sides to refusal of co-operation; a power which every
free agent ought to be allowed to exercise, on his own personal
responsibility, with the object of impressing on those who are
teaching187 him unjustly the importance of the services which he has
been rendering. The workman is not to be compelled to work any more
than the capitalist to direct. Any abuse of this extreme protest on either
side will of course be disapproved by the moral power; but the option of
making the protest is always to be reserved to each element in the
collective organism, by virtue of his natural independence. In the most
settled times functionaries have always been allowed to suspend their
services on special occasions. It was done frequently in the Middle Ages
by priests, professors, judges, etc. All we have to do is to regulate this
privilege, and embody it into the industrial system. This will be one of
the secondary duties of the philosophic body, who will naturally be
consulted on most of these occasions, as on all others of public or
private moment. The formal sanction which it may give to a suspension
or positive prohibition of work would render such a measure far more
effective than it is at present. The operation of the measure is but partial
at present, but it might in this way extend, first to all who belong to the
same trade, then to other branches of industry, and even ultimately to
every Western nation that accepts the same spiritual guides. Of course
persons who think themselves aggrieved may always resort to this
extreme course on their own responsibility, against the advice of the
philosophic body. True spiritual power confines itself to giving counsel:
it never commands. But in such cases, unless the advice given by the
philosophers has been wrong, the suspension of work is not likely to be
sufficiently general to bring about any important result.
This theory of trade-unions is, in fact, in the industrial world, what
the power of insurrection is with regard to the higher social functions; it
is an ultimate resource which every collective188 organism must
reserve. The principle is the same in the simpler and more ordinary cases
as in the more unusual and important. In both the intervention of the