Were it not that Communism is provisionally useful in
antagonizing other doctrines equally erroneous, it would have, then, no
real importance, except that due to the motives which originated it; since
its practical solution is far too chimerical and subversive ever to obtain
acceptance. Yet, from the high morality of these motives, it will
probably maintain and increase its influence until our working men find
that their wants can be more effectually satisfied by gentler and surer
means. Our republican system seems at first sight favourable to the
scheme; but it cannot fail soon to have the reverse effect, because, while
adopting the social principle which constitutes the real merit of
Communism, it repudiates its mischievous illusions. In France, at all
events, where property is so easy to acquire and is consequently so
generally enjoyed, the doctrine cannot lead to much practical harm;
rather its reaction will be beneficial, because it will fix men's minds
more seriously on the just claims of the People. The danger is far greater
in other parts of Western Europe; especially in England, where
aristocratic influence is less undermined, and where consequently the
working classes are less advanced and more oppressed. And even in
Catholic countries, where individualism and anarchy have been met by a
truer sense of fraternity, Communistic disturbances can only be avoided
finally by a more rapid dissemination of Positivism, which will
ultimately dispel all social delusions,181 by offering the true solution of
the questions that gave rise to them.
The nature of the evil shows us at once that the remedy we seek
must be almost entirely of a moral kind. This truth, based as it is on real
knowledge of human nature, the people will soon come to feel
instinctively. And here Communists are, without knowing it, preparing
the way for the ascendancy of Positivism. They are forcing upon men's
notice in the strongest possible way a problem to which no peaceable
and satisfactory solution can be given, except by the new philosophy.
Property is a public trust, not to be interfered with legally
That philosophy, abandoning all useless and irritating discussion
as to the origin of wealth and the extent of its possession, proceeds at
once to the moral rules which should regulate it as a social function. The
distribution of power among men, of material power especially, lies so