direct such effort. A striking example, which is not so well remembered
as it should be, will help to explain my meaning. At the first opening of
the Polytechnic School, courses of lectures were given, very
appropriately named Revolutionary Courses, which concentrated the
teaching of three years into three months. 'What was in that case an
extraordinary anomaly, due200 to republican enthusiasm, may become
the normal state when a moral power arises not inferior in energy, and
yet based upon a consistent intellectual synthesis, of which our great
predecessors of the Revolution could have no conception."
Little attention has hitherto been given to the didactic value of
Feeling. Since the close of the Middle Ages, the heart has been
neglected in proportion as the mind has been cultivated. But it is the
characteristic principle of Positivism, a principle as fertile in intellectual
as in moral results, that the Intellect, whether we look at its natural or at
its normal position, is subordinate to Social Feeling. Throughout this
course of popular education, parents and masters will seize every
suitable occasion for calling Social Feeling into play; and the most
abstruse subjects will often be vivified by its influence. The office of the
mind is to strengthen and to cultivate the heart; the heart again should
animate and direct the mental powers. This mutual influence of general
views and generous feelings will have greater effect upon scientific
study, from the esthetic culture previously given, in which such habits of
mind will have been formed, as will give grace and beauty to the whole
life.
Governmental assistance not required, except for certain special
institutions, and this only as a provisional measure
When I speak of this education as specially destined for the
people, I am not merely using words to denote its comprehensiveness
and philosophic character. It is, in my opinion, the only education, with
the exception of certain special branches, for which public organization
is needed. It should be looked on as a sacred debt which the republic
owes to the working classes. But the claim does not extend to other
classes, who can easily pay for any special instruction that they may
require. Besides such201 instruction will be only a partial development
of the more general teaching, or an application of it to some particular